
Why do we use a container?
Gives us access to the tools we need.
    - compilier
    - linker
    - debugger
    - assembler
    - preprocessor
    - editor


We are used to a gui view of our computer
We have another way to access the same information
The terminal, or shell, or command prompt

Most of the tools for this class are terminal based tools
So being comfortable on the terminal is essential

So we learn some basic linux commands so we can be useful

What is linux?
It is a kernel.
A way to "talk" to a machine
It's open source.

It's an operating system.
An operating system allows users to access the resources on a computer.

Files
images
devices
internet
memory
processor

The best way to get better at the terminal commands is to practice

The terminal gives a view of the file system.

ls - means list. It will display the contents of the directory
ls -a will show all of the Files

. - the "dot" file is the file that represents the current directory
.. - the "double dot" file represents the parent of this directory

Our filesystem is a tree.

The tree is rooted at the root, the root is represented by a / 

/workspaces/CS2505 is my path to my working directory
pwd is the command to show you your current working directory

cd <path> will change directory to where you asked it to go with the <path>

paths come in 2 flavors
absolute paths. They are paths that start with the root, /, and explicitly
list the entire way to get where you want to go
relative paths. These are paths that do not start with the root. They are taken
to mean from your current working directory, follow the path to some destination

cp inclass/aug-28.txt ../

cp means copy and it takes 2 arguments
arguement 1 is the source
arguement 2 is the destination

mkdir - make directory
rmdir - removes a directory - the directory must be empty

mv source destination
this can also be used to rename a file 

the cat command can be used to see the contents of 
a file

Linux has a set of wildcards that can be used with commands

a wildcard replaces a single letter or a set of letters.

The 2 we will start with are ? and *

a ? will match any single character
a * will match any character


ls file?.java wwould match java files named file0.java file1.java ... file9.java but
not file10.java
ls file??.java would match file10.java
